# Final Project EE551_Engineering Programming_Python
- Name: Shehpar Sohail & Michael Hodgetts

## For Pencil-Sketching/Cartoonifying:
1. With Pip set up, use the command line for installing the following packages:
pip install numpy
pip install matplotlib
pip install opencv-python

2. Run Pencil-Sketching.py:

In command prompt, navigate to the directory where the script “PencilSketching.py” is saved.
To run the application to convert normal photos into pencil sketches, run:
python PencilSketching.py

The application is written to run the function that generates the pencil-sketch. Four photos of various styles were examined: landscape, portrait, urban, and close-up landscape. Once the algorithm to produce the pencil-sketch is run, each photo is examined one at a time. The original image is first displayed for five seconds and then the corresponding transformed image is shown for five seconds. Thus, a total of eight pictures are displayed.

3. Run Cartoon.py:

Similar to Pencil-Sketching, in command prompt, navigate to the directory where the script “Cartoon.py” is saved.
To run the application to convert normal photos into pencil sketches, run:
python Cartoon.py

The application is written to run the function that generates the cartoon version of an image. Four photos of various styles were examined: landscape, portrait, urban, and close-up landscape. Once the algorithm to produce the cartoon is run, each photo is examined one at a time. The original image is first displayed for five seconds and then the corresponding transformed image is shown for five seconds. Thus, a total of eight pictures are displayed.

## For Generating Photo Mosaics:
1. Like Pencil-Sketching and Cartoonifying images, certain Python packages are required before running the application. For this application to run successfully the required packages are Pillow, OpenCV, glob, math, and string. As glob, math, and string modules come with the installation of Python, use the command line for installing Pillow and OpenCV:
pip install pillow
pip install opencv-python

2. Run MosaicCollage.py:

In command prompt, navigate to the directory where the script “MosaicCollage.py” is saved.
To run the application to convert normal photos into photo mosaics, run:
Python MosaicCollage.py

3. Test Cases:

This application generates three photo mosaics located in the same directory as the script “MosaicCollage.py”. The three photo mosaics are called:
skyline_mosaic_50_[28,21]_tiles.gif
skyline_mosaic_300_[28,21]_tiles.gif
skyline_mosaic_300_[5,5]_tiles.gif

The “skyline_mosaic_50_[28,21]_tiles.gif” maps 50 tiles of width 28 pixels, height 21 pixels to the master picture. These 50 tiles are located in the directory “gifs50tiles2821”. Similarly, 
the “skyline_mosaic_300_[28,21]_tiles.gif” maps 300 tiles of width 28 pixels, height 21 pixels to the master picture. These 300 tiles are located in the directory “gifs300tiles2821”. Likewise, the “skyline_mosaic_300_[5,5]_tiles.gif” maps 300 tiles of width 5 pixels, height 5 pixels to the master picture. These 300 tiles are located in the directory “gifs300tiles55”. To size the all tiles to their respective width and heights, the function resize_images(tile_location) was used.

4. Conclusion:

Larger quantity of tiles to select from and smaller tile dimensions resulted in better resolution (see screenshots below).

Mapping of 50 tiles of width 28 pixels, height 21 pixels to the master picture
- ![Screenshot1] (https://github.com/shehsohail/EE551_Final_Project/ExampleMosaicOutputs/skyline_mosaic_50_28221_tiles.gif)

Mapping of 300 tiles of width 5 pixels, height 5 pixels to the master picture
- ![Screenshot2] (https://github.com/shehsohail/EE551_Final_Project/ExampleMosaicOutputs/skyline_mosaic_300_55_tiles.gif)

Example of all three photo mosaics generated by the application are also provided in the directory “ExampleMosaicOutputs”.

## Video Link:
- 


